# Markdown Previewer

[Markdown Previewer](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/markdown-previewer/pkafcdoobiajoadnphldaglkoadicmgd) is a chrome extension that starts a previewer along side with the github default editor.

# Roadmap

- [x] display images in the repo according to its path not URL.
- [ ] ~~support [github emoji](https://github.com/ikatyang/emoji-cheat-sheet/blob/master/README.md)~~
- [ ] private repo
- [ ] ~~mermaid chart~~
- [x] css theme as plugin
- [ ] theme market

Removed items such as `support of github emoji` because that the capability of renderere will be full handled by the renderer itself. The renderere is actually loaded as a plugin. Read more at [#plugin](Plugin).

# Markdown Theme

Since the [security policy](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/apps/contentSecurityPolicy/#what) of Chrome Web Store, the idea of plugin(writen in JavaScript) was abandoned. Instead, the extension allows external CSS file that customs the styles of markdown content.

The markdown content is generated by the renderer of the extension without any styles. The external css for the customization should follow the rules as:

1. The CSS selector should like https://github.com/pengson-wang/markdown-css-themes/blob/main/themes/github.css.
2. The CSS file should hosted on github public repository since for now the extension only has permission to download public files from github.

When the CSS is ready for use, you are free to add a theme using the above URL (https://github.com/pengson-wang/markdown-css-themes/blob/main/themes/github.css). When you've enabled the theme in the extension, it will download apply the styles from the CSS to the markdown content.

# Plugin (Deprecated)

> Since the security policy of Chrome Web Store the idea of plugin(using JavaScript) was abandoned. Instead, the extension is going to support css theme as plugin.

> I'm still considering to ship this extension without the help of Chrome Web Store. e.g. via zip in the release page.

The idea that use external plugin (just for renderer purpose) as the markdown renderer is to release the power of customiza the previewer part as much as possible. With the flexibilty with plugin, people doesn't need different extension but only this the `Markdown Previewer` with just different renderers.

## How to make your own plugin?

Follow the sample here https://github.com/pengson-wang/markdown-renderers. The key point of making a plugin are as following:

1. Pack your plugin as a web-component
2. expose a function name called `setup`.

This function will be executed by the renderer-container(one of the core runs by the Markdown Previewer)

```
function setup(tagName: string) {
  // Register the custom element.
  // After registration, all `<my-vue-element>` tags
  // on the page will be upgraded.
  customElements.define(tagName, MyWebComponents)
}

if (typeof window === 'object') {
  //@ts-ignore
  window.setup_markdown_renderer = setup
}
```

More details about the component props please read the code in the sample.

It's ok to use any other tech stacks that match the above points. Have fun!

# LICENSE

MIT
